EntityModel.md, before:

# Enterprise Data Model
### Name
What is the thing being modeled
#### Model creation date
When was this entity model created
#### Model last update date
When was this model last updated
### Theme
what are the key themes to this entity.
### Unique Identifiers
What are the unique identifiers and is there a system for their creation/ generation
### Definition
An establishment is a thing. Here is where we describe it.
### What it is not
It is important to call out what the entity isn't, things it is often confused for.
### Synonyms
Other names by which the entity is known, link out to other implementations if there is documentation for it but be careful here as it might give the wrong impression that synonym versions are okay, they ain't.
### Definition Adopted by
Who within the organisation chose this as the model for the entity, this where you would go to amend the definition not for updates to data using the definition
### Definition source
The source for the definition of the entity that has been adopted. this could be a link to legislation or another source i.e. <https://www.w3.org/>
### Adoptee Information
where should I go to talk about this definition
### Owner
The person or organization that created the definition that has been adopted. This could be either internally within the FSA or a third party organisation i.e. <https://www.w3.org/>
### Source
The source for the definition of the entity that has been adopted. If the entity exist in one system link to docs if there are any.
### Reference data
Links to registers or reference data
### Key Properties
The properties that would be shared across all implementations of this entity because they are fundamental to it. These can have a little more detail, and where possible should link out to data patterns in our data pattern library.
#### Controlled Vocabularies
This is always recorded in a certain way (i.e. Yes, No, Maybe) for a big Vocabulary you may want to link out or for small Vocabularies you may want to list them here
#### Contextual Properties
The properties that are most common in specific implementations of the entity, might be best to link out to subclasses if the relationship is that strong i.e. Establishment > Approved Establishment
#### Model created by
Who wrote this entity model.

Commit message:

updated multiple patterns, drafts and the template.
Added the further reading header to the template.md file

Updated the establishment draft model in line with team meeting notes.

fixed markdown in premises and county parish holdings files.

Added change date to the date and time pattern, fixed the markdown.

EntityModel.md, after:

# Enterprise Data Model
### Name
What is the thing being modeled
#### Model creation date
When was this entity model created
#### Model last update date
When was this model last updated
### Theme
what are the key themes to this entity.
### Unique Identifiers
What are the unique identifiers and is there a system for their creation/ generation
### Definition
An establishment is a thing. Here is where we describe it.
### What it is not
It is important to call out what the entity isn't, things it is often confused for.
### Synonyms
Other names by which the entity is known, link out to other implementations if there is documentation for it but be careful here as it might give the wrong impression that synonym versions are okay, they ain't.
### Definition Adopted by
Who within the organisation chose this as the model for the entity, this where you would go to amend the definition not for updates to data using the definition
### Definition source
The source for the definition of the entity that has been adopted. this could be a link to legislation or another source i.e. <https://www.w3.org/>
### Adoptee Information
where should I go to talk about this definition
### Owner
The person or organization that created the definition that has been adopted. This could be either internally within the FSA or a third party organisation i.e. <https://www.w3.org/>
### Source
The source for the definition of the entity that has been adopted. If the entity exist in one system link to docs if there are any.
### Reference data
Links to registers or reference data
### Key Properties
The properties that would be shared across all implementations of this entity because they are fundamental to it. These can have a little more detail, and where possible should link out to data patterns in our data pattern library.
#### Controlled Vocabularies
This is always recorded in a certain way (i.e. Yes, No, Maybe) for a big Vocabulary you may want to link out or for small Vocabularies you may want to list them here
#### Contextual Properties
The properties that are most common in specific implementations of the entity, might be best to link out to subclasses if the relationship is that strong i.e. Establishment > Approved Establishment
#### Further Reading
Any documentation that would be helpful for our users to see
#### Model created by
Who wrote this entity model.
