models/drafts/activity.md, before:

# Activity

This model was last updated on **23/01/2020**, this is version **0.2**

##### Model created
07/01/2020

## Description
Activity is one of the most complex entities within our data ecosystem.

In the FSA business context an activity is something that happens within the food and feed sector or the regulation of that sector by the FSA or other [Competent Authority](doalink).

Some examples of activities which form part of the sector include;

*   [The list of activities](https://data.food.gov.uk/codes/organisation/_activities) which fall under the legislation of approved food establishments
*   [The list of activities](https://data.food.gov.uk/codes/business/animal-feed-establishments/_feed-activities) which fall under the regulations for animal feed

Some examples of activities which form part of the regulation of the sector include;

*   The inspection of an establishment prior to gaining approval to undertake an approved activity
*   Taking food samples from food establishments

### Related entities

Some activities will be entities in their own right.  For example, inspections are an activity, but the properties of that entity can vary from scheme to scheme.


## Unique Identifiers
Where possible, activities should be recorded as registers within the scope of a scheme and a code list created. The unique identifier should be the URI of the registry entry.

## What it is not
An activity is not a scheme but a scheme can be an activity.

## Synonyms
*   Approved activities
*   Administrative activities
*   Regulatory activities

## Key Properties
*   The Unique identifier (UID) that identifies the activity.
*   Links to the appropriate official controls where appropriate.

It is important to recognise that, ownership and administration of activities can span different competent authorities. See further information for examples.  

## Reference data
*   [activities register](https://data.food.gov.uk/codes/organisation/_activities)

## Further Information

Enrolments in activities are concurrent and consecutive.  They have a start and end date and cannot be modified. If an establishment is removed from or no longer wishes to carry out a registered business activity, the status will be changed appropriately and an end date will be recorded.  Establishments can request to re-enroll provided they meet the criteria.  New enrollment documentation will be required and a new UID will be generated.  

An example of an activity; A slaughter house would require approvals to slaughter different types of animals.  If that slaughter house then wanted to process the carcasses they would require approval to carry out cutting activity, and if they wanted to have in house cold storage they would require further approval to carry out those activities too.

Examples of Enrolment for official controls include;
*   Approvals including, slaughter, cutting, storage of food produce
*   Registrations
*   Register a Food Business (RaFB)
*   Shellfish Farming and Harvesting


#### Notes taken [to be deleted]
an activity is the approved process of getting permission for an establishment to carry out certain action or business type in relation to food and feed.  
Activities are things that food and feed businesses do
approved activities process of getting permission for an establishment to carry out certain action or business type in relation to food and feed.
registered activities they are administered activities that make regulated businesses run
Activities are bound within a domain and scope.

Where possible use some are defined by legislation, and regulation
activities that happen across the food and feed businesses across the UK FSA and its working partners
activities discharged by the FSA and CA to make regulatory and legislative system function
2 fundamental

Commit message:

added experimental category to line 3
added experimental category to line 3, initial thought was to have it in the header info of the page but thought this was more prominent.

models/drafts/activity.md, after:

# Activity

This model was last updated on **23/01/2020**, this is version **0.2** Category: **experimental**

##### Model created
07/01/2020

## Description
Activity is one of the most complex entities within our data ecosystem.

In the FSA business context an activity is something that happens within the food and feed sector or the regulation of that sector by the FSA or other [Competent Authority](doalink).

Some examples of activities which form part of the sector include;

*   [The list of activities](https://data.food.gov.uk/codes/organisation/_activities) which fall under the legislation of approved food establishments
*   [The list of activities](https://data.food.gov.uk/codes/business/animal-feed-establishments/_feed-activities) which fall under the regulations for animal feed

Some examples of activities which form part of the regulation of the sector include;

*   The inspection of an establishment prior to gaining approval to undertake an approved activity
*   Taking food samples from food establishments

### Related entities

Some activities will be entities in their own right.  For example, inspections are an activity, but the properties of that entity can vary from scheme to scheme.


## Unique Identifiers
Where possible, activities should be recorded as registers within the scope of a scheme and a code list created. The unique identifier should be the URI of the registry entry.

## What it is not
An activity is not a scheme but a scheme can have multiple activities.

## Synonyms
*   Approved activities
*   Administrative activities
*   Regulatory activities

## Key Properties
*   The Unique identifier (UID) that identifies the activity.
*   Links to the appropriate official controls where appropriate.

It is important to recognise that, ownership and administration of activities can span different competent authorities. See further information for examples.  

## Reference data
*   [activities register](https://data.food.gov.uk/codes/organisation/_activities)

## Further Information

Enrolments in activities are concurrent and consecutive.  They have a start and end date and cannot be modified. If an establishment is removed from or no longer wishes to carry out a registered business activity, the status will be changed appropriately and an end date will be recorded.  Establishments can request to re-enroll provided they meet the criteria.  New enrollment documentation will be required and a new UID will be generated.  

An example of an activity; A slaughter house would require approvals to slaughter different types of animals.  If that slaughter house then wanted to process the carcasses they would require approval to carry out cutting activity, and if they wanted to have in house cold storage they would require further approval to carry out those activities too.

Examples of Enrolment for official controls include;
*   Approvals including, slaughter, cutting, storage of food produce
*   Registrations
*   Register a Food Business (RaFB)
*   Shellfish Farming and Harvesting


#### Notes taken [to be deleted]
an activity is the approved process of getting permission for an establishment to carry out certain action or business type in relation to food and feed.  
Activities are things that food and feed businesses do
approved activities process of getting permission for an establishment to carry out certain action or business type in relation to food and feed.
registered activities they are administered activities that make regulated businesses run
Activities are bound within a domain and scope.

Where possible use some are defined by legislation, and regulation
activities that happen across the food and feed businesses across the UK FSA and its working partners
activities discharged by the FSA and CA to make regulatory and legislative system function
2 fundamental
