models/drafts/establishment.md, before:

---
title: "Establishment" # title of document put in "Title".  This becomes the "Name"
date: 2020-01-8 # date last updated in YYYY-MM-DD. This will take the place of the "date modified"
categories: # list below each on a separate line with the prefix of  - category
    - category
tags: # list below each on a separate line with the prefix of  - tag
    - tag
    -   
header:
  image: "" # put in path to header image file "/images/shellfish/lbv.jfif"
excerpt: "Enterprise data model relating to Establishment as defined by the Food Standards Agency, also relates to operator and premises" #synopsis of what the enterprise data model is, please type within "".
mathjax: "false" # change to true if you are going to include formulas
---

# Enterprise Data Model
### Name
Establishment
#### Model creation date
2020-01-08
#### Model last update date
2020-01-08
### Theme
*
### Unique Identifiers
The unique identifier for an establishment is an 18 character string structured like: XXXXXX-XXXXXX-XXXXXX
### Definition
Establishments are the central unit of enrolment within food and feed related legisation. The key fields of an establishment are its premises and its operator. A change in either of these gives rise to a different establishment. Other changes, such as changes in establishment type or the mix of activities requiring registration or approval which it undertakes, trigger a change of establishment.

### What it is not
As far as the FSA is concerned an establishment is only an establishment if it is related to food. This means that your local phone shop is not counted as an establishment as far as the FSA is concerned.
### Synonyms
*   approved Establishment
*   registered Establishment
*   plant
### Definition Adopted by
FSA Data Team

### Definition source
[data.food.gov.uk/codes definition, this page is not yet live](https://data.food.gov.uk/codes/business/def/establishment.ttl)
### Adoptee Information
FSA Data Team
### Owner
FSA Data Team
### Source
An establishment is created during the register a food business process.
### Reference data
Once available link to unified view here
### Key Properties
The key properties that define what an establishment is are its operator and premises. Without these an establishment has not been defined.

#### Contextual Properties
The key properties of an establishment are the premises in question and its operator:
*   [Premises](/model/draft/Premises.md)
*   [Operator](http://www.google.com)
#### Model created by
FSA Data Team

Commit message:

updated multiple patterns, drafts and the template.
Added the further reading header to the template.md file

Updated the establishment draft model in line with team meeting notes.

fixed markdown in premises and county parish holdings files.

Added change date to the date and time pattern, fixed the markdown.

models/drafts/establishment.md, after:

---
title: "Establishment" # title of document put in "Title".  This becomes the "Name"
date: 2020-01-8 # date last updated in YYYY-MM-DD. This will take the place of the "date modified"
categories: # list below each on a separate line with the prefix of  - category
    - category
tags: # list below each on a separate line with the prefix of  - tag
    - tag
    -   
header:
  image: "" # put in path to header image file "/images/shellfish/lbv.jfif"
excerpt: "Enterprise data model relating to Establishment as defined by the Food Standards Agency, also relates to operator and premises" #synopsis of what the enterprise data model is, please type within "".
mathjax: "false" # change to true if you are going to include formulas
---

# Establishment
### Name
Establishment
#### Model creation date
2020-01-08
#### Model last update date
2020-01-08
### Theme
*
### Unique Identifiers
The unique identifier for an establishment is an 18 character string structured like: `XXXXXX-XXXXXX-XXXXXX`
### Definition
Establishments are the central unit of enrolment within food and feed related legisation. The key fields of an establishment are its Premises and its Operator. A change in either of these gives rise to a different establishment. Other changes, such as changes in establishment type or the mix of activities requiring registration or approval which it undertakes, trigger of the change of establishment.

### What it is not
As far as the FSA is concerned an establishment is only an establishment if it is related to food or feed. This means that your local phone shop is not counted as an establishment as far as the FSA is concerned.
### Synonyms
*   approved Establishment
*   registered Establishment
*   plant
### Definition Adopted by
FSA Data Team

### Definition source
[data.food.gov.uk/codes definition, this page is not yet live](https://data.food.gov.uk/codes/business/def/establishment.ttl)
### Adoptee Information
FSA Data Team
### Owner
FSA Data Team
### Source
Most establishments is created during the register a food business process.
### Reference data
Once available link to unified view here
### Key Properties
The key properties that define what an establishment is are its operator and premises. Without these an establishment has not been defined.

#### Contextual Properties
The key properties of an establishment are the premises in question and its operator:
*   [Premises](/model/draft/Premises.md)
*   [Operator](http://www.google.com)

For an establishment to be an approved establishment it must be attached to at least one [activity](/model/draft/Activity.md)

Registered establishment and some approved establishments are registered by local authorities # link to competent authorities
#### Model created by
FSA Data Team
