patterns/drafts/competent-authority-type.md, before:

# Competent Authority Type

This pattern was last updated 16/01/2020, this is version 0.x

Pattern Created: 16/01/2020

A Competent Authority is defined as a body with a regulatory or supervisory role over the provision of a service, such as a professional body; for example, the Institute of Actuaries or a central or local government authority.

Competent Authorities deliver food and Feed official controls.  The Food Standards Agency is the Central Competent Authority responsible for oversight and assurance that the food and feed regulatory system is effective.  For example, the FSA works with other Competent Authorities to ensure the Food Health Rating Scheme is delivered as it should be.

Competent authorities are in the main local government bodies but could also be other government departments (eg DEFRA, DAERA), other partnership organisations or Primary Authorities.

### Format

The Competent Authority field is a string field of **xx** characters.  (**DN - are the values restricted to Council Types LOV plus specific others or something less prescriptive?  Have assumed restricted to prescribed LOVs at the moment**)

### Allowable entries

Entries are restricted to valid Local Authority types, plus FSA specific additional organisation types

### Registers 
-   [List of Local Authority Types](https://www.registers.service.gov.uk/registers/local-authority-type)
-   [List of additional FSA Competent Authority types](https://data.food.gov.uk/codes/blahblahblah) (**DN add link to FSA CA Types when done**)

### FSA Additional Competent Authority types

For changes to the FSA additional Competent Authority Types please contact (**DN insert contact here**)

Commit message:

Text added to CA Types Pattern

patterns/drafts/competent-authority-type.md, after:

---
title: "Competent Authority Type" # title of document put in "Title".  This becomes the "Name"
date: 2020-01-16 # date last updated in YYYY-MM-DD. This will take the place of the "date modified"
categories: # list below each on a separate line with the prefix of  - category
    - category
tags: # list below each on a separate line with the prefix of  - tag
    - Competent Authority
    - Competent Authority Type
header:
  image: "" # put in path to header image file "/images/shellfish/lbv.jfif"
excerpt: "" #synopsis of what the enterprise data model is, please type within "".
mathjax: "false" # change to true if you are going to include formulas
---

# Competent Authority Type

Version 0.x

Pattern Created: 16/01/2020

A Competent Authority is defined as a body with a regulatory or supervisory role over the provision of a service, such as a professional body; for example, the Institute of Actuaries or a central or local government authority.

Competent Authorities deliver food and Feed official controls.  The Food Standards Agency is the Central Competent Authority responsible for oversight and assurance that the food and feed regulatory system is effective.  For example, the FSA works with other Competent Authorities to ensure the Food Health Rating Scheme is delivered as it should be.

Competent authorities are in the main local government bodies but could also be other government departments (eg DEFRA, DAERA), other partnership organisations or Primary Authorities.

The Competent Authority Type will indicate the type of organisation eg Disrict Council, Partnership Organisation, Port Health Authority, Metropolitan Borough Council.

### Format

The Competent Authority field is a string field of **xx** characters.  (**DN - are the values restricted to Council Types LOV plus specific others or something less prescriptive?  Have assumed restricted to prescribed LOVs at the moment**)

### Allowable entries

Entries are restricted to valid Local Authority types, plus FSA specific additional organisation types.

### Registers
-   [List of Local Authority Types](https://www.registers.service.gov.uk/registers/local-authority-type)
-   [List of additional FSA Competent Authority types](https://data.food.gov.uk/codes/blahblahblah) (**DN add link to FSA CA Types when done**)

### FSA Additional Competent Authority types

For changes to the FSA additional Competent Authority Types please contact (**DN insert contact here**)
