---
title: "Activity"
date: 2020-01-07
categories:
    - Enrolment
tags:
    - Enrolment  
    - Competent Authority
    - Approval
    - Registration
    - Activity
    - Establishment
header:
  image: "/images/enrolheader.jfif"
excerpt: "In the context of the Food Standards Agency enrolement for an activity is the process of getting permission for an establishment to carry out certain actions."
mathjax: "false"
author_profile: false
sidebar:
    nav: "edms"
---

## Definition
In the context of the Food Standards Agency enrolment for an activity is the process of getting permission for an establishment to carry out certain actions.  

## Key Properties
*   UID that identifies the establishment being enrolled for the activity or scheme. Enrolments are concurrent and consecutive.  They have a start and end date and cannot be modified. If an establishment is removed from or no longer wishes to carry out a registered business activity, the status will be changed appropriately and an end date will be recorded.  Establishments can request to re-enroll provided they meet the criteria.  New enrollment documentation will be required and a new UID will be generated.  
*   Identify to person, business and establishment.
*   Records the activity / scheme being enrolled into
*   Links to the appropriate official controls.

It is important to recognise that, ownership and administration of activities can span different competent authorities. For example; (think of Examples).  

## Reference data
*   Link to the [activities register](https://data.food.gov.uk/codes/organisation/_activities)
*   Link to the [Establishment Types](https://data.food.gov.uk/codes/business/rafb/_establishment-type) with name, UID and descriptors
*   Link to the [establishment](https://data.food.gov.uk/codes/_business)
*   Link to the [Competent Authorities register](https://data.food.gov.uk/codes/)

## Further Information

An example of an activity, a slaughter house would require individual approvals to slaughter different types of animals.  If that slaughter house then wanted to process the carcasses they would require cutting approval for those animals and if they wanted to have in house cold storage they would require further approval to carry out those activities too.

Examples of Enrolment for official controls include;
*   Approvals including, slaughter, cutting, storage of food produce
*   Registrations
*   Register a Food Business (RaFB)
*   Shellfish Farming and Harvesting
