---
layout: default
title: Establishment
nav_order: 3
has_children: false
parent: Entities
categories: entity
---

# Establishment
This model was last updated on **19/02/2020**, this is version **0.2**

Experimental
{: .label .label-yellow }

### Model created
10/02/2020

## Description
Establishments are the central unit of enrolment within food and feed related legislation.

An Establishment is a combination of two entities; [Premises](/enterprise-data-models/entities/premises.html) and [Operator](/enterprise-data-models/entities/operator.html). A change in either of these gives rise to a different establishment.

Other changes, such as changes in establishment type or the mix of activities requiring registration or approval which it undertakes, do not create a new establishment, only modify an existing one.

As of this version, this implementation of establishment exists only within the Unified View service, but our architectural approach is to converge on this definition over time in other services too.

### Related entities
[Premises](/enterprise-data-models/entities/premises.html) and [Operator](/enterprise-data-models/entities/operator.html) are both child entities of Establishment.

### Synonyms
*   Approved establishment
*   Registered establishment
*   Plant

### What it is not
An establishment is only an establishment if it is related to food or feed.

[Premises](/enterprise-data-models/entities/premises.html) is often confused for establishment. When developing services we should be sure to make it clear that this is not the case.

## Key properties
The key properties are the entities [Premises](/enterprise-data-models/entities/premises.html) and [Operator](/enterprise-data-models/entities/operator.html), please see the definition for these entities.

In addition, the establishment entity should identify the specific combination of these two child entities using a [unique reference number](#unique-identifiers).

## Contextual properties
Approved establishments are approved to undertake specific activities laid out in legislation, please see the [approved activities code list](https://data.food.gov.uk/codes/business/approved-food-establishments/_activities).

Approved establishments are also identified in the system that handles approvals by their `Approval Number`.

Registered establishments and some approved activities are handled by other [competent authorities](https://data.food.gov.uk/codes/reference-number/_authority).

## Unique identifiers
The unique identifier for an establishment is an 18 character string structured like: `XXXXXX-XXXXXX-XXXXXX`

It is generated by the [FSA reference number generator](https://github.com/FoodStandardsAgency/fsa-rn).

Currently, it is only unique within Unified View.

## Reference data
All services that create establishment entities should assign an establishment type from the [Unified Establishment Types list](https://data.food.gov.uk/codes/business/_unified-establishment-type).
